>> Richard Feldman: So for our exercise,
we're going to actually implement
the thing that we've been talking about in
this section.
We're going to change our homepage,
and make it so
that instead of displaying
the complete list of feed articles,
it's going to filter them based
on which tag you have selected.
So when you click a tag, it's going
to say, this is a new selected tag.
And based on that new selected tag,
we're gonna show a different
set of things in the feed.
So let's hop on over to part3,
so we'll cd into part3.
And once again, we will open
it up in our editor of choice.
Okay, we will see here that the directory
structure is very similar to before.
One difference is now we have
one extra thing inside source,
which is we have a new file.
So previously we just
had Main.elm in source.
Now we have Main.elm,
we also have Article.elm.
This is our second module ever.
So let's take a look at
what that actually does.
So inside of our Main, you may notice
that we have a new import in here.
So previously we just had a couple
of imports, Html, Html.attributes.
We now have three new imports.
One is Browser, which is going to give
us Browser.sandbox, which is essentially
a way to tell the Elm runtime, hey, here's
what my view function is, here's what
my update function is, and here is what
I want you to initialize the model to.
Previously, we just had it rendering HTML,
so we didn't need to tell it any of that.
But now that we're making things
interactive, we actually have to specify
what are view function is,
what our update function is, etc.
So we could name these whatever we wanted.
By convention, usually, you name it
view and you usually name it update.
But if we wanted to, we could give
them different names if we so desired.
So that's what that browser import is for,
it's just for that one thing.
We also have Html.Events, and
you can see that it's exposing onClick,
whereas these two are exposing
all the values that they have.
So onClick, we're gonna use
a little bit later for making it so
that when you click on the tag,
it actually does the interactive
stuff we've been talking about.
And these modules up here all come from
a package of some sort or another.
Whereas this one, this import Article,
this actually comes from our code.
So this is a module article.
This is a new module that we've written
that is basically just a way to move
this hard coded data somewhere
outside of Main.elm so
it's not cluttering up Main.elm.
This is not really a good
use of Elm modules.
As we'll learn in the advanced workshop,
there actually is quite a lot of useful
functionality to them, and this is
not really such a great use of them.
But I wanted to demonstrate if you
want to make a new Elm module,
you name it the same thing as thing as
the file name without the .elm extension.
So because this is Article.elm,
it's called module article.
And we're able to import it
just by saying import Article.
So there's no, once again,
no need to introduce any kind of
special build process for this.
Elm just has a module system built into
it, it just works right out the box.
Okay, so
that's what's going on with those imports.
If we look into the README,
it also mentions that we're going to need
to install a new package for this one.
Now for the rest of the workshop,
I done this for you.
But I wanted to demonstrate what
it's like to install a new package.
So on your command line,
you gonna wanna copy and
paste this command elm install
elm/browser, which is the name of
the package that includes that browser
that we're now using for the first time.
Okay, so I say elm install elm/browser, it
says here is my plan, we're going to add
elm/browser, and elm/virtual-dom
which is a transitive dependency.
Would you like me to update
your elm.json accordingly?
Yes I would, done.
Okay, so again,
this loaded dependencies from local cache,
because we actually already
had Elm browser downloaded and
installed in our cache when we
did the setup from earlier.
So we didn't actually need to even
go to the network to get that.
It's like, well, that's already
cached in your home directory, so
I'm not gonna bother downloading it again.
This works offline.
So it happens that you're ever on an
airplane or something, you have no WiFi,
and you wanna work on
a brand new Elm project,
you can actually just install
all of your dependencies.
And it's all gonna work as long as
they're all things that you've ever
downloaded before.
They're all just gonna be read
straight of the cache, and
it's not even gonna bother going to
the network to see if there's anything
different because there
can't be anything different.
So now we have Elm browser installed, and
we are ready to complete the exercise.
We're not really gonna go over elm.json.
But I'll briefly mention
what's going on in here.
There's a source directory which lists, if
you want to have other directories besides
the source directory,
you can list them there.
This specifies what version of
Elm we're building again, and
then here are our dependencies.
We are not gonna get into
test-dependencies cuz we are not actually
doing any test today, but dependencies
break down into direct and indirect.
Direct dependencies are things that
we actually can use inside of our
application.
Indirect dependencies are essentially
things that our direct dependencies need,
and this is how the elm package
installer has resolved them and
figured out the versions that
are compatible with one another.
So these things,
we cannot actually import in our project.
The only reason they're in there is to
make sure that when different teams
are working on the same code base, they're
all getting exactly the same version of
these things resolved when they install.
So in NPM, this is the equivalent or
this is a separate file
called packagelock.json,
wherein Ruby there's like gemfile.lock.
Elm just has this as part of elm.json, so
you don't have a separate file to worry
about, it's just right
there in the elm.json.
Okay, as for the actual exercise,
we're gonna open source/Main.elm in our
editor, and once again resolve the todos.
We're gonna use the same build
command as we did before.
So if you've already got that on your
terminal, you can just pull it up like
before, and that should just work now
that we've installed the browser package.
So let's take a look at this Main.elm.
All right, so you can see that we
have a couple of sections here.
And I've done this comment heading thing.
This is a convention in
Elm that's widely used,
which is slice up your module by just
having these all caps comment headers.
As I previously mentioned, Elm's module
system is used for more than just files.
There's actually important boundaries
about which things modules do and
do not expose.
So its considered best practice not
to chop things up by moving them into
different files, but
rather just to say, this is my module,
I want this module to
do particular things.
If I want different subsections within
that, I'll just gonna put a heading,
like I would if I were
writing a blog post.
So here's our section for the model,
we have this initialModel.
The reason I named it initialModel is
because this top level model here is only
gonna be used in one place.
It's only gonna be used to
kick off our application.
After that,
we're never gonna use it again.
After that, we're only going to be working
with the current model, which is to say
an argument that gets passed into update,
or an argument that gets passed into view.
initialModel is only
used to kick things off.
Okay, so we have a couple of to-dos here.
The first one is we're going
to implement our update.
Now update is going to be looking
at a field called msg.description,
like we talked about in the slides.
And it's gonna say if that
description is ClickedTag,
then set the model's selectedTag field,
which starts off being Elm,
to be whatever msg.data happens to be.
So if we get a message that says
ClickedTag, and data is programming,
then selectedTag should get
changed to be programming.
We're gonna use record
update syntax to do that.
Remember, you just need to return the new
model with the update applied to it.
Another hint,
remember that if always needs an else.
Okay, and then down here in the view,
we're going to introduce filtering.
So we already have a little bit
of the syntax filled out here, so
we have this list of articles,
which is going to be used to render
those articles on the side of the feed.
And we're already calling
List.filter on it.
The only problem is List.filter is taking
the world's most boring is keepable
function.
Article, it takes an article and
then it always returns true.
So we're gonna replace that with some
actual logic so that it will filter it
out, based on whether the article should
or should not be rendered in the feed.
And to figure that out, we're gonna
need to use these three ingredients,
List.member, article.tags,
and model.selectedTags.
So each of these articles has
a list of tags inside of it, and
we're gonna use List.member to try and
determine,
is the currently selected tag one
of those tags for this article?
That's what's gonna be
our filter condition.
If you wanna see the documentation for
List.member, there is a link right here.
So this is the Elm package website,
this is where all documentation for
Elm packages lives.
And here is the member function, so
it has an example of how you can call it,
passing these different arguments to
get back different return values.
Okay, let's take ten minutes and
go through these.
I'm sorry, I missed something,
the third to-do.
[LAUGH] The third to-do is we're gonna add
an onClick handler which links the two
together.
So back in update, we talked about we're
gonna get a message that looks like this.
It's gonna have a description and a data.
Down here in this view,
we are rendering one particular tag.
So viewTag takes the currently
selected tagName,
which is gonna be passed
in from the model.
And then it takes the tagName of this
particular tag that it's going to be
viewing.
So we wanna use that tagName to create
this onClick to make sure that when we
send this message to model it corresponds
to the actual tag the user clicked.